citystate (#2577)
cpinitiative/usaco-guide: solutions/usaco-667.mdx

id: usaco-667
source: USACO Silver 2016 December
title: Cities & States
author: Benjamin Qi, Kevin Sheng
---

[Official Editorial (Java)](http://www.usaco.org/current/data/sol_citystate_silver_dec16.html)

As the editorial mentions, we can store the number of times a given four-letter
string appears in a `map`.

**Time Complexity:** $\mathcal{O}(N)$

<LanguageSection>
<CPPSection>

<Info>

> As the below solution uses `map`, the complexity is actually

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The time complexity of the below solution is actually
```

Author: i feel like mentioning `map` is necessary

Reviewer: uhh i said "since it uses `map`" the following line

		string city;
		string state;
		read >> city >> state;
		city = city.substr(0, 2);  // We only care about the first two letters of the city
		pairs.push_back({city, state});
	}

	map<string, int> seen;
	long long total = 0;
	for (const auto& [c, s] : pairs) {
		if (c != s) {
			total += seen[s + c];
		}
		seen[c + s]++;
	}

	ofstream ("citystate.out") << total << endl;
}
```

</CPPSection>
<JavaSection>

```java
import java.io.*;
import java.util.*;

public class CityState {
	static class Pair {
		public String city;
		public String state;
		public Pair(String city, String state) {
			this.city = city;
			this.state = state;
		}
	}

	public static void main(String[] args) throws IOException {
		BufferedReader read = new BufferedReader(new FileReader("citystate.in"));
		int pairNum = Integer.parseInt(read.readLine());
		Pair[] pairs = new Pair[pairNum];
		for (int p = 0; p < pairNum; p++) {
			StringTokenizer cityState = new StringTokenizer(read.readLine());
			String city = cityState.nextToken();
			String state = cityState.nextToken();
			// We only care about the first two letters of the city
			city = city.substring(0, 2);
			pairs[p] = new Pair(city, state);
		}

> 		HashMap<String, Integer> seen = new HashMap<>();

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
		Map<String, Integer> seen = new HashMap<>();
```

	ifstream read("citystate.in");
	int N;
	read >> N;

	vector<pair<string, string>> pairs;
	for (int i = 0; i < N; i++) {
		string city;
		string state;
		read >> city >> state;
		city = city.substr(0, 2);  // We only care about the first two letters of the city
		pairs.push_back({city, state});
	}

> 	vector<int> seen(26 * 26 * 26 * 26);

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	vector<int> seen(MAXN);
```
Make ```MAXN``` a global variable and set it equal to `26 * 26 * 26 * 26` or `pow(26, 4)`. Generally, it's a good idea to put constants as global variables...

		Pair[] pairs = new Pair[pairNum];
		for (int p = 0; p < pairNum; p++) {
			StringTokenizer cityState = new StringTokenizer(read.readLine());
			String city = cityState.nextToken();
			String state = cityState.nextToken();
			// We only care about the first two letters of the city
			city = city.substring(0, 2);
			pairs[p] = new Pair(city, state);
		}

		int[] seen = new int[(int) Math.pow(26, 4)];
		long total = 0;
		for (Pair p : pairs) {
			if (!p.city.equals(p.state)) {
				total += seen[index(p.state + p.city)];
			}
			seen[index(p.city + p.state)]++;
		}

		PrintWriter out = new PrintWriter("citystate.out");
		out.println(total);
		out.close();
	}

	static int index(String s) {
		int ind = 0;
		for (int i = 0; i < s.length(); i++) {
			ind = ind * 26 + (s.charAt(i) - 'A');
		}
		return ind;
	}
}
```

</JavaSection>
<PySection>

```py
def index(s: str) -> int:
	ind = 0
	for c in s:
		ind = 26 * ind + (ord(c) - ord('A'))
	return ind

pairs = []
with open('citystate.in') as read:
	for _ in range(int(read.readline())):
		city, state = read.readline().strip().split()
		city = city[:2]  # We only care about the first two letters of the city
		pairs.append((city, state))

> seen = [0 for _ in range(26 ** 4)]

Reviewer: i guess here too??
